What  Street  Art is  an  urban  art  appreciation  project  conceptualized  and  developed  by  an interdisciplinary  and  international  collective  of  students.  The  app  aims  to  provide  creators with  a  digital  platform  to  showcase  their  work  and  users  with  location-specific,  artificial intelligence-based data about murals and graffiti in their city. 

This initiative is the result of TechLab Berlin’s Local Digital Shaper Program and incorporates the combined efforts of all four of the program’s education tracks: User Experience Design, Web Development, Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. 

The iOS-based application is designed to entice the user into the streets to explore murals and graffiti. Upon launching the app, the user can navigate through collections of artworks sorted by popularity, proximity, and the latest uploads. It contains an AI-based scanning option that enables the user to scan murals and find the artwork’s title, creator’s name, and background information via their device’s camera. Additionally, the app will recommend  works  with similar aesthetics based on the AI’s analysis of each scan. 

Another highlight is the ‘Map’ function, where the hunt for street art is facilitated by a geolocation-based  map  populated  by  markers  pinpointing  various  urban  artwork  sites.  This feature allows the user to navigate to the closest mural or place of interest, or alternatively, scroll and swipe through listed artworks in nearby neighbourhoods. Through the ‘Explore’ tab, What Street Art invites adventurous users to discover a list of randomly selected artworks and stumble upon new artists. 

Our app endeavours to soothe the wants and needs of urban art fans, hunters, and creators alike. The ability to ‘like’ and ‘save’ artworks in personalized galleries is our attempt to allow users to curate their very own street art collection. Our app does not require an account unless the user would like to archive their muralgems for future viewing. 
